Eliot Laurence Spitzer (born June 10, 1959) is a former American Democratic politician and attorney who served as the 54th Governor of New York from January 1, 2007 until his resignation fourteen months later on March 17, 2008. Prior to being elected governor of New York, he was elected to two four-year terms as the Attorney General of New York from 1999 to 2006. Prior to becoming Attorney General, Spitzer worked for six years as a prosecutor with the office of the Manhattan District Attorney and also worked as an attorney in private practice with several New York law firms.

Spitzer grew up in the Riverdale neighborhood of the Bronx, New York. He received a Bachelor's degree at Princeton University and his Juris Doctor at Harvard Law School. He resigned as New York's governor in 2008 in the midst of a scandal concerning his solicitation of prostitutes. After his resignation, he has worked as a television host and an adjunct instructor; Spitzer also ran for office and made private investments in a start-up company.

Spitzer was born on June 10, 1959, in the Bronx, the son of Anne (nee Goldhaber), an English literature professor, and Bernard Spitzer, a real estate mogul. His paternal grandparents were Galician Jews, born in Tluste, Poland (now Ukraine). His maternal grandparents, born in the 1890s, were Jewish immigrants from Palestine. Spitzer is the youngest of three children. He was raised in the affluent Riverdale section of The Bronx in New York City. His family was not religious, and Spitzer did not have a Bar Mitzvah.

He is a 1977 graduate of Horace Mann School. After scoring 1590 out of 1600 on the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT), Spitzer attended Princeton University and majored in the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. At Princeton, he was elected chairman of the undergraduate student government, and graduated in 1981. He has reported he received a perfect score on the Law School Admission Test (LSAT), and went on to attend Harvard Law School, where he met and married Silda Wall. Spitzer was an editor of the Harvard Law Review.